HTTP?

HTTP <Hyper Text Transfer Protocol> is an application/abstraction layer meaning that it’s tasked with specifying the communication protocols between hosts <devices connected to a computer network> in a network.
It’s especially important in transmitting hypermedia docs like HTML docs which are the infrastructure/framework of all web pages.
HTTP functions on a client server model - with the client being the web browser making a request to the server regarding a web page and then awaiting a response from that server pertaining to information for the webpage.

API?

An API <Application Programme Interface> is a set of features and rules that exist inside a software program aka the application that allow you to interact with the software without a human UI.
An API is the interface between the app offering it and other third party software or hardware.
An API is a set of rules and protocols that allows different software applications to COMMUNICATE with each other. The API acts as a bridge between different software systems enabling them to exchange data and perform various functions.
An API defines the methods and data formats that applications can use to interact with each other. It provides a standardised way for different applications to access and use the functionality and resources of another application or service without needing to understand it’s internal working.
APIs are based on a set of rules and protocols such as HTTP, REST <Representational State Transfer> or SOAP <Simple Object Access Protocol>. Crucially, these states determine how data is exchanged between the requesting application <client> and the application or service offering the API <server>.
ULTIMATELY, an API can be thought of as a contract between two software components. It defines a set of rules methods and endpoints that describe what operations can be performed, what data can be accessed or modified and how the interaction between the two components should take place.
APIs are a CRUCIAL component of modern software development as they enable different applications and systems to work together seamlessly by providing a standard interface for communication and data exchange. They play a vital role in enabling integration interoperability, and extensibility in software ecosystems.

RESTFUL API?

HTTP APIs are RESTFUL APIs
Most Apps use the client - server architecture. The client is the front end part, the server is the backend part. The front end needs to communicate with the back end in order for it to get and save the data. It does this by using HTTP.
The client <front end> can “call” services available in the backend via HTTP communication.
REST relates to the architecture of apps pertaining to the correspondence between the clients and servers via HTTP protocols, which is made via HTTP requests.

HTTP REQUESTS

HTTP requests are like messages that a computer or device sends to a website or server. 
Essentially when a HTTP request is made, the device is either asking the server for info or telling the server or website to do something, updating information, giving information, or removing something.
There are different types of HTTP request:
GET REQUESTS: A GET request is a HTTP request pertaining to getting information from a server or website. After a GET request is sent, the webpage or server then sends the information to the computer or device.
POST REQUESTS: This is like giving information. This HTTP request pertains to the user giving data to a website, like leaving a comment or submitting a form. When one does this, a HTTP POST request is sent with the info to the site.
 PUT REQUESTS: A HTTP PUT request pertains to when a user wants      to update information. If there is a drawing on a website for example and you want to change the colour, you can send a PUT request to change that colour.
 DELETE REQUESTS: A HTTP DELETE request pertains to when a user wants to delete a file or something from a website. A DELETE request will be sent from the computer to the server/site to remove the file.
 PATCH REQUESTS: A HTTP PATCH request is used to update or modify existing information rather than replacing or changing the entire thing. The PATCH request made is only making a small change to an existing resource like updating a phone number on a website.